These are the essential building blocks of an Android application. Each is a different point through which the system can enter your application. Not all are actual entry points for the user and some depend on each other, but each one exists as its own entity and plays a specific role.~application components
These represent a single screen with a user interface. As such, a different application can start any one of these (if the application allows it). For example, a camera application can start on of these in the email application that composes new mail, in order for the user to share a picture.~activity
These are components that run in the background to perform long-running operations or to perform work for remote processes. These do not provide a user interface. Another component, such as an activity, can start one of these and let it run or bind to it in order to interact with it.~service
These manage a shared set of application data. You can store the data in the file system, a SQLite database, on the web, or any other persistent storage location your application can access. Through the content provider, other applications can query or even modify the data (if the content provider allows it) and are also useful for reading and writing data that is private to your application and not shared.~content provider
These are components that respond to system-wide broadcast announcements. Although these don't display a user interface, they may create a status bar notification to alert the user when a broadcast event occurs. More commonly, though, they act as just a "gateway" to other components and are intended to do a very minimal amount of work.~broadcast receiver
A unique aspect of the Android system design is that any application can do this to another application’s component. For example, if you want the user to capture a photo with the device camera, there's probably another application that does that and your application can use it, instead of developing an activity to capture a photo yourself.~start
You can use these to start activities, services, and broadcast receivers.~intent
With these, you simply describe the type of action you want to perform (and optionally, the data upon which you’d like to perform the action) and allow the system to find a component on the device that can perform the action and start it.~intent actions
If there are multiple components that can perform an action described by the intent, then this selects selects which one to use.~user
This is a bundle of information describing a desired action — including the data to be acted upon, the category of component that should perform the action, and other pertinent instructions.~intent object